What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

I think it creates a log about the current files in the directory, stores the date of the repo initialization and thats all. I cannot think anything else Git could do. I think they are made to be able to check which files can be added to the commit. Well, the time could be unnecessary.

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?

Well, the staging area consists of the files of the working directory, but not necesseraly the all of them. The working dir is the actual directory, where your files and directories resides. The staging area is a virtual directory, where only only the changes resides that you want to commit. The repo is also a virtual directory which contains every version of every file.

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?

It is simple. I add only the files of 1 logical changes to the staging area and then commit.

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?

Branches are differennt versions of the project, they have different purpose. It helps me to organize these multiple instances of the project and i can work on them separately.

How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

It is easy, it shows me the entire structure, all the branches and the commits in them. I can see which commits are in which branches and the reachability is clear of all commits.

What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?

The result of merging contains all the commits of the merges branches. This is why the two lines continues in one in the diagram.

What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?

The automatic merges can save us pretty significant time, which is good :) On the other hand, it can make mistakes which ruin the code and make it unbuildable, which is pretty bad.